# Visualizing Data with Seaborn
## Experimenting with Numpy and Pandas
***
This repository contains exercises from Codeup's bootcamp. 
***
## Elaborating on the Subject Matter
#### Numpy 

Numpy is a library for representing and working with large and multi-dimensional arrays. Most other libraries in the data-science ecosystem depend on numpy, making it one of the fundamental data science libraries.     
Numpy provides a number of useful tools for scientific programming. Convention is to import it like so: 
```
import numpy as np
```
Provides capabilities pertaining to:
- Indexing
    - An Array type that goes beyond built-in lists.
        - Create a numpy array by passing a list to the np.array function. 
        - Make it multi-dimensional by passing a list of lists to np.array
- Vectorized Operations
    - Vectorizing operations means that operations are automatically applied to every element in a vector
        - Not only are the arithmatic operators vectorized;the same applies to comparison operators.
- Array Creation (several methods)
    - np.random.randn; np.zeros; np.ones; np.full; np.arange; np.linspace
- Array Methods
    - .min; .max; .mean; .sum; .std (standard deviation)
***
#### Pandas
##### Series:
The Pandas Series object is similar to a numpy array, with added functionality and features.      

A pandas Series object is a one-dimensional, labeled array made up of an autogenerated index that starts at 0 and data of a single data type.

A couple of important things to note about a Series:

- When attempting to create a pandas Series using multiple datatypes(e.g., int + string), the data will be converted to the same object data type; the int values will lose their int functionality.       

- A pandas Series can be created in several ways; we will look at a few of these ways below. However, it will most often be created by selecting a single column from a pandas Dataframe in which case the Series retains the same index as the Dataframe. We will dive into this in the next two lessons: DataFrames and Advanced DataFrames.

Convention is to import pandas like this:
``` import pandas as pd ```
Pandas series are vectorized by default. 
      
- Series Attributes
Attributes return useful information about a Series' properties; they don't perform operations or calculations with the Series. Attributes are easily accessible using dot notation like we will see in the examples below.
There are several components comprising a Series; easily accessed individually using attributes. 
- Examples:
    - .index: The index allows us to reference items in the series.
    - .values: The values are the data itself
    - .dtype: The dtype is the data type of the elements in the Series.
        - int, float, bool, object, category
    - .name: The name is an optional human-friendly name for the Series.
    - .size: The .size attribute returns an int representing the number of rows in the Series. 
        - _NULL values are included_.
    - .shape: The .shape attribute returns a tuple representing the rows and columns when used on a two-dimensional structure like a DataFrame, but it can also be used on a Series to return its number of rows. 
        - NULL values are included.     
- Series Methods
    - .head: The .head(n) method returns the first n rows in the Series
    - .tail: The .tail(n) method returns the last n rows in the Series
    - .sample: The .sample(n) method returns a random sample of rows in the Series
    - .astype: used to convert the data types of the values in the series
    - .value_counts: returns a new Series consisting of a labeled index representing the unique values from the original Series and values representing the frequency of each unique value that appears in the original Series.
        - It's like performing a SQL GROUP BY with a COUNT.
    - nlargest: number of largest values
    - nsmallest: number of smallest values
        - I can set the keep parameter to first, last, or all to deal with duplicate largest or smallest values; this is quite handy.
    - sort_values: sorting in ascending or descending order
    - sort_index: sorting in ascending or descending orders
    - .describe: returns a Series of descriptive statistics on a pandas Series. 
        - The information it returns depends on the data type of the elements in the Series.
- Other descriptive statistics methods:
    - count: number of non-na observations
    - sum: sum of values
    - mean: mean of values
    - median: arithmetic median of values
    - min: minimum value
    - max: maximum value
    - mode: most occurant value
    - abs: Absolute Value
    - std: bessel-corrected sample standard deviation
    - quantile: sample quanitle (value at %)
    



***
## Further Reading:
[Numpy Array Methods](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/arrays.ndarray.html#array-methods)
[Multiple Pandas Tutorials Recommended from the Official Pandas Docs](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/tutorials.html)         
[Pandas Cheatsheet](https://pandas.pydata.org/Pandas_Cheat_Sheet.pdf)
